Thank you for the interest in our work. 

In case you need further assistance or to report a bug, please contact: 
alberto.basaglia(at)unich.com

Recommended citation: Basaglia, A., G. Cianchino, G. Cocco, D. Rapone, M. Terrenzi, E. Spacone, and G. Brando. "An automatic procedure for deriving building portfolios using the Italian “CARTIS” online database." In Structures, vol. 34, pp. 2974-2986. Elsevier, 2021.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sub-typologies Definition - USER MANUAL (Updated December 2021)

1) FILES DESCRIPTION
Two scripts are provided - one for Reinforced Concrete (RC) and the other for Unreinforced Masonry (URM) buildings. 
Please make sure to download the entire folder. Absence of one or more file will not allow the script to work.
The "allcomb" function was downloaded from: https://it.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/10064-allcomb-varargin. All credits to the owner.

2) CARTIS PARAMETER
The script currently includes all CARTIS parameter available in the pgAdmin platform as of May 2021. Change in the available parameters may not allow the script to work.
Access to the pgAdmin database is possible only with permission of the PLINIVS Center (http://plinivs.it/home/).
The downloaded .csv file from pgAdmin should be placed inside the folder with all the other files.

3) MATLAB VERSION
Version used to develop and test the script was the MATLAB version 9.9.0.1592791 (R2020b) Update 5. 2020.
Use of a different MATLAB version should not compromise the script functionality but is not guaranteed.
MATLAB is a registered trademark and MATLAB Grader is a trademark of The MathWorks, Inc.
User licence was provided by the University of Ferrara (Total Academic Headcount License).

4) RC BUILDINGS - SEISMIC ZONATION
The sub-typologies definition for RC building requires (according to the proposed framework) the classification of Italian Provinces over time between "Seismic" and "Gravity" loads.
This classication is based on the evolution of the seismic zonation.
NOTE: Currently, this classification is done ONLY for the Abruzzo Region. In case the procedure is going to be applied to a different Region, the User should edit the .txt file adding the aforementioned classification for all considered Provinces.

5) ASSIMILATION/AGGREGATION
The choice of parameters aggregation/assimilation described in the paper was made following the Authors expert judgment.
Users may choose to adopt different approaches to derive the sub-typologies.

6) PLOT 
Users can choose a different layout of plots by searching and editing the variables "n_col" and "n_row" at the end of the scripts.
